when we're grinding meat through the grinder i
want to make sure that everything is icy cold
i'm going to make sure that the meat has
been dried normally for a classic force
meat we're going to have 20% fat 80% meat, we
need to make sure everything is over ice
stainless steel bowls everything is completely
cold as cold as we possibly can get it when we're
actually doing this it's called an emulsification
we're grinding the meat and the fat together if
the fat gets too warm it will start to smear
and will not get the correct emulsification
and again the reason why everything we got
here is coming out of the freezer or it's
been in an ice bath and it is absolutely as cold
as possible first I want to do is just turn it on
green for go red for stop and then
i want to put the meat into the grinder
then with my hand and the meat stuffer i
want to start pushing the meat through to
start the grinding process as you can see
as it's coming through there it is grinding
and you've got a mixture of the meat and of the
fat don't try and force too much meat through
too quickly you just want to drop it down into
the chamber and then just push it through into
the bowl the stainless steel
bowl that is on the ice itself
so as you can see the meat is coming out
of the grinder plate if I clean that away
you can see as the
the meat as I'm going
to put a little bit more through
and this would be if we were doing a double
ground application again pushing it through
and you can see as the meat is
coming there on the double ground
it is emulsifying and grinding the fat even
further into the meat to create the force meat